---
title: "Risk factors associated with calf mortality in Western Canadian cow-calf operations"
collection: publications
category: publication
external_url: https://www-sciencedirect-com.login.ezproxy.library.ualberta.ca/science/article/pii/S0167587723001538
excerpt: '[Access Full Paper](https://www-sciencedirect-com.login.ezproxy.library.ualberta.ca/science/article/pii/S0167587723001538)'
venue: "Preventive Veterinary Medicine"
#citation: "Tang, M., Lewis, K.E., Lambert, D.M., Griffith, A.P., and Boyer, C.N. (2017). Beef cattle retained ownership and profitability in Tennessee. Journal of Agricultural and Applied Economics, 49(4), 571-591."
date: 2023-07-31
---

**Abstract.** This study examined the influence of management practices and herd demographics on calf mortality proportions in Western Canadian cow-calf operations, utilizing data from the second Western Canadian Cow-calf Survey. The survey was conducted between October 23, 2017, and February 28, 2018. The survey, which was open to all cow-calf producers across Western Canada, provided producer-reported data regarding calf death loss and corresponding herd-level factors. A fractional logit model was employed to identify significant factors associated with calf mortality proportions. The findings revealed that shorter breeding seasons (<63 days), calves born within the same season, and regular pregnancy checks for breeding females were negatively associated with calf mortality proportions. Conversely, regular breeding soundness evaluations for breeding bulls, traditional weaning methods, and vaccinating heifers for scours showed positive associations with increased calf mortality proportions. Herd operations where dams were vaccinated against clostridial and bovine respiratory diseases had lower calf mortality proportions. Notably, operations with experienced primary decision-makers holding off-farm jobs had lower predicted calf mortality proportions compared to those managed by full-time cattle producers. Higher predicted calf mortality proportions were observed in operations employing a backgrounding system. The study’s limitations included potential biases due to its cross-sectional nature and reliance on producer-reported data, which might lead to an underestimation of calf mortality proportions. Also, the limited sample size and missing data might have affected the statistical significance of some variables. This study contributed to the research on cow-calf operation by using a fractional logit model to analyze the correlation between risk factors and calf mortality proportions, and by identifying novel herd-level risk factors. It provided a basis for future research aimed at developing empirically-based management strategies to optimize calf health outcomes.

**Recommended citation**:**Tang, M.** and Lhermie, G., 2023. Risk factors associated with calf mortality in Western Canadian cow-calf operations. *Preventive Veterinary Medicine*, 218, p.105989. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prevetmed.2023.105989